# Tracking Screen Visits
To track which screens the user has visited in your app, call one of the overloads of `setScreenVisit` methods of the Optimove singleton after the SDK has successfully initialized:
TODO: Noy to give me formats for iOS and whether options, required etc
- `setScreenVisit(@NonNull Activity activity, @NonNull String screenTitle)`
- `setScreenVisit(@NonNull Activity activity, @NonNull String screenTitle, @Nullable String screenCategory)`
- `setScreenVisit(@NonNull String screenPath, @NonNull String screenTitle)`
- `setScreenVisit(@NonNull String screenPath, @NonNull String screenTitle, @Nullable String screenCategory)`

Where:
- **screenPath**: which represent the path to the current screen in the form of 'path/to/scene
- **screenTitle**: which represent the current scene
- **screenCategory**: which adds the scene category it belongs to. 

TODO: Can we write something similiar for iOS?
Calling one of the overloads with the `Activity` parameter means that the SDK would build your screen's path according to the `Activity`'s hierarchy. Alternatively, you can control that hierarchy yourself by calling one of the `String screenPath` overloads (for example, if you use `Fragment`s for app navigation).

**Single screen title code snippet example**
TODO: Should it be in some function? Where do we mention it must be after initalization?
```swift
Optimove.shared.setScreenVisit(screenPath: "<YOUR_PATH>", screenTitle: "<YOUR_TITLE>", screenCategory: "<OPTIONAL: YOUR_CATEGORY>")
```

**Array of screen titles code snippet example**
Added a screen reporting function which takes an array of screen titles instead of a screenPath String: 
TODO: Should it be in some function? Where do we mention it must be after initalization?
```swift
Optimove.shared.setScreenVisit(screenPathArray: ["Home", "Store", "Footware", "Boots"], screenTitle: "<YOUR_TITLE>", screenCategory: "<OPTIONAL: YOUR_CATEGORY>")
```
