# Prerequisites

Before proceeding to implement the Android SDK, ensure that the following prerequisites have been addressed.

## Versioning
Optimove uses [semantic versioning](https://semver.org/), which means that each time you `Sync Now` your `build.gradle`, Optimove SDK will automatically be updated with any minor features, improvements and hotfixes.

The current major version of this SDK is 2.x. 

## Dependencies (for the current version, 2.x)

- com.google.firebase:firebase-core => 16.0.8
- com.google.firebase:firebase-database => 16.1.0
- com.google.firebase:firebase-messaging => 17.5.0
- com.google.firebase:firebase-invites => 16.1.1
- com.firebase:firebase-jobdispatcher => 0.8.6

## Language Support

- Optimove's Android SDK is written in `Java 8` (for details about _Android Official Java 8 Support_, see [Java8 Developer's Guide](https://developer.android.com/studio/write/java8-support).

- Apps written in `Java 7` or that use `Jack` may result in build errors. If this happens, migrate the app to `Java 8`. 

- Optimove's Android SDK is compatible with both AppCompat and AndroidX.

- Optimove's Android SDK supports apps written in Kotlin.

## Configuration Details per App Package
In order to receive your Optimove Mobile SDK configuration details, send your **app's package(s)** to Optimove Product Integration team.

If you are using multiple apps for development/testing purposes, provide a list of all package names being used for all environments.

>**Important Note**: Optimove Android SDK integration can begin when your Optimove instance is in production.

## Android SDK Demo Applications

1. [Example Java App Demo](https://github.com/optimove-tech/Mobile-SDK-Integration-Guide/tree/mobile-sdk-general-page-v2.0/Android%20Integration%20Guide/example-apps/app-with-firebase-sdk)
2. [Example Kotlin App Demo](https://github.com/optimove-tech/Mobile-SDK-Integration-Guide/tree/mobile-sdk-general-page-v2.0/Android%20Integration%20Guide/example-apps/kotlin-app)
3. [Example Java App that uses the Firebase SDK Demo](https://github.com/optimove-tech/Mobile-SDK-Integration-Guide/tree/mobile-sdk-general-page-v2.0/Android%20Integration%20Guide/example-apps/simple-app)
