# Initializing Optimove Android SDK
Please follow the step by step below.

## 1. Your Optimove SDK Details
After providing the prerequisites (TODO: Link this), you will receive from Optimove Product Integration team the following details to add to your SDK initialization:<br>
- ***YOUR_OPTIMOVE_TENANT_TOKEN*** – Your unique SDK token in order to identify you from other SDKs
- ***YOUR_OPTIMOVE_CONFIG_NAME*** – The mobile config used to store your app events 

>**Important Notice**: You must have the all (TODO: Link this) dependencies and Java 8 installed and an Optimove production instance available.

## 2. Optimove SDK Demo Application
For a demo application containing the Android SDK, please use our [Android GitHub repository](https://github.com/optimove-tech/Android-SDK-Integration-Guide/tree/master/example-app)
TODO: Change link


## 3. Add Java 8
Add the following to the app module's `build.gradle` file, under the `android` object.

```groovy
compileOptions {
    sourceCompatibility JavaVersion.VERSION_1_8
    targetCompatibility JavaVersion.VERSION_1_8
}
```

## 4. For Kotlin support only
Kotlin is completely interoperable with Java Apps that are written in Kotlin can use the SDK. However, these apps should add the formentioned `compileOptions` and also following object below:
  ```groovy
  kotlinOptions {
      jvmTarget = '1.8'
  }
  ```

  If you get an error like `:app:transformClassesWithDesugarForDebug`, you may have to enable desugaring in your `gradle.properties` file:
  ```groovy
  android.enableD8.desugaring = true
  ```

## 5. Add Optimove Repository to Your Project
- In you app module's `build.gradle` file, update your dependency statement (under `dependencies` object) to:
  ```groovy
  implementation 'com.optimove.sdk:optimove-sdk:2.+'
  ```

>**Important Information**: Optimove uses [semantic versioning](https://semver.org/), which means that you should automatically update your Optimove SDK every time we release a patch or a minor release.

## 6. Add Optimove `BuildConfig`
Please see the following two examples if you are using a "debug" and "release" version<br/>

**Debug**
```groovy
android {
    buildTypes {
        debug {
   	    //Note: don't delete the single nor the double quotes - change the value only
	    buildConfigField "String", "OPTIMOVE_TENANT_TOKEN", '"<YOUR_OPTIMOVE_TENANT_TOKEN>"'
	    buildConfigField "String", "OPTIMOVE_CONFIG_NAME", '"<YOUR_OPTIMOVE_CONFIG_NAME>"'

	    //optional - set to "true" during integration
	    buildConfigField "Boolean", "OPTIMOVE_CLIENT_STG_ENV", 'true'	            
	    //optional - set to "DEBUG" during integration
	    buildConfigField "String", "OPTIMOVE_MIN_LOG_LEVEL", '"DEBUG"'
	    //optional - see "important note" below
	    buildConfigField "Boolean", "OPTIMOVE_DISABLE_AUTO_INIT", 'false'
	}
    }
}
```

**Release**
```groovy
android {
    buildTypes {
        release {
   	    //Note: don't delete the single nor the double quotes - change the value only
	    buildConfigField "String", "OPTIMOVE_TENANT_TOKEN", '"<YOUR_OPTIMOVE_TENANT_TOKEN>"'
	    buildConfigField "String", "OPTIMOVE_CONFIG_NAME", '"<YOUR_OPTIMOVE_CONFIG_NAME>"'

	    buildConfigField "Boolean", "OPTIMOVE_CLIENT_STG_ENV", 'false'	            
	    buildConfigField "String", "OPTIMOVE_MIN_LOG_LEVEL", '"ERROR"'
	    //optional - see "important note" below
	    buildConfigField "Boolean", "OPTIMOVE_DISABLE_AUTO_INIT", 'false'
	}
    }
}
```

>**Important Note**: If the your app uses Firebase and doesn't use the Google Play Services plugin to automatically initialize the app, the the app must:
    
- 1.  Disable Optimove's automatic initialization by setting this to "true":
```groovy
buildConfigField "Boolean", "OPTIMOVE_DISABLE_AUTO_INIT", 'true'
```
    
- 2.  To manually initialize the Optimove SDK  **after**  it initializes the default  `FirebaseApp`.
TODO: Noy is this support to be here or by optimove.configure"?

## 6. Optional: Manually initialize Firebase
If you set `OPTIMOVE_DISABLE_AUTO_INIT` to `true`, please add the following to your Application Java class. Otherwise you can skip this section.

```java
public class MyApplication extends Application {

    @Override
    public void onCreate() {
    super.onCreate();
    //TODO: Need to add some comments here
    FirebaseApp.initializeApp(this, new FirebaseOptions.Builder().<Calling all the Setters>.build());
    //TODO: need to add some comments here
    Optimove.configure(this, new TenantInfo("<OPTIMOVE_TENANT_TOKEN>", "<OPTIMOVE_CONFIG_NAME>")); 
    //TODO: Is the TenantInfo params correct reference noy?
    }
}
```


TODO: Do i need to mention about working with multiple firebase messaging services? Meytal - Yes, we need our service to be able to receive the Device's FCM Token and Silent Push Messages
TODO: why was OptipushFcmTokenHandler under mobile sdk and not optipush? can we move it to optipush. what exactly? Meytal - No for the reason mentioned above


## 7. Initializing Application
The SDK initialization process occurs asynchronously, off the `Main UI Thread`.<br>
Before calling the Public API methods, make sure that the SDK has finished initialization by calling the `registerSuccessStateListener` function within the the `OptimoveSuccessStateListener` instance.<br>

```java
public class MainActivity extends AppCompatActivity implements OptimoveSuccessStateListener {

  @Override
  protected void onStart() {
    super.onStart();
    Optimove.registerSuccessStateListener(this);
  }

  @Override
  protected void onStop() {
    super.onStop();
    Optimove.unregisterSuccessStateListener(this);
  }

  @Override
  public void onConfigurationSucceed(SdkRequiredPermission... missingPermissions) {
    //If required, ask for permissions at this stage TODO: Should we link to permissions below?
    //You can now start calling Optimove SDK functions (e.g. screen visits)
  }
}
```
>**Important Note**: If the object implementing the `OptimoveSuccessStateListener` is a component with a _"Lifecycle"_ (i.e. `Activity` or `Fragment`), **_always_** unregister that object at the `onStop()` callback to prevent memory leaks.

## 8. Permissions
Once the SDK has finished initializing successfully, it passes all **User Dependent missing permissions** through the `onConfigurationSucceed(SdkRequiredPermission... missingPermissions)`. These permissions are important to the _user experience_ but do not block the SDK's proper operation.<br>

These Permission are:
- * `DRAW_NOTIFICATION_OVERLAY` - Indicates that the app is not allowed to display a "_drop down_" notification banner when a new notification arrives.
- * `NOTIFICATIONS` - Indicates that the user has opted-out from the app's notification
- * `GOOGLE_PLAY_SERVICES` - Indicates that the `Google Play Services` app on the user's device is either missing or outdated 
- * `ADVERTISING_ID` - Indicates that the user has opted-out from allowing apps from accessing his/her **Advertising ID**

## 9. Automatic Backup
Starting from API 23, Android offers the Auto Backup for Apps feature as a way to back up and restore the user's data in the app. This is used to prevent corrupted state where the user ID from previous installations won't leak into a new ones.

The Optimove SDK depends on various local files being deleted once the app is uninstalled.
For that reason if the hosting app also defines `android:fullBackupContent="@xml/app_backup_rules"` in the manifest.xml file, Android will raise a merge conflict.

Follow these steps to resolve the conflict and maintain the data integrity of the Optimove SDK:

- Add `tools:replace="android:fullBackupContent">` to the application tag
- Copy the content of the `optimove_backup_rules.xml` to your full-backup-content xml.

- >For more information about Android Automatic Backup checkout [backup Developer's Guide](https://developer.android.com/guide/topics/data/autobackup.html) article

## 10. Troubleshooting
- **Issue**: The  `build.gradle`  file shows the following error:  _All com.android.support libraries must use the exact same version specification (mixing versions can lead to runtime crashes). Found versions 28.0.0, <X.X.X>._  

- **Solution**: Add an explicit dependency to your  `build.gradle`  file that forces Gradle to resolve the conflict on the V4 support library:  `implementation 'com.android.support:support-v4:28.0.0'`.
