# Managing Android Environments
TODO: Is it multi environment or just staging/production? Noy? Meytal - Stg/prod at the moment, later we'll add also dev 

## Enabling Staging Environment
Optimove has added the ability to manage multiple application environments and send your SDK log details to Optimove during integration phase.

- Added a flag to mark the specific `BuildType`s/`BuildFlavor`s that represent the app's _Staging_ environment
- This is enabled **only** for `BuildType`s that are **not** _Dev_ or _Production_

**Flag Code Snippet Example**
```java
// Add this only for the BuildTypes that are considered "Staging"
buildConfigField "Boolean", "OPTIMOVE_CLIENT_STG_ENV", 'true' 
// No need to add "false" for the other BuildTypes, as this is the default value
```

> The SDK considers a _Staging_ environment one that is:
>   1. Safe to collect more metrics about the SDK's performance, disregarding battery/data use conservation
>   2. (TODO: doesnt make sense) Not in use during development as we don't want to overflow our databases with information about the SDK each time you open your development environment

## Configurating Log Levels
// Meytal - This is an optional feature. By default we will report any log from INFO level and above, except for when the app is in production, where we set it to WARN and above. With this feature they can optionaly change the levels to ones they see fit to their enviroments. This should really only be in use for apps that care about controling these sort of things
- Optimove supports log levels by adding the optional flag  `OPTIMOVE_MIN_LOG_LEVEL` in the `BuildConfig` of the app. Optimove SDK would use the flag to set the minimal reported Log Level. 
- Possible values are:  _DEBUG/INFO/WARN/ERROR_ (**case sensitive**)
>**Important Notice**: 
- During the integration and testing stages, please use log level `DEBUG` only
- In Production, please use `ERROR` only TODO: Noy is this correct?

**Log Level Code Snippet Example**
```groovy
buildConfigField "String", "OPTIMOVE_MIN_LOG_LEVEL", '"<DEBUG/INFO/WARN/ERROR>"'    
```
